
[hyper-text portrait](easy.html)


Blog week 1

The telegraph marked the beginning of near instant communication. (Carey, J. (2009)) The introduction of this technology allowed for the first time for communication and transportation to be seperate, meaning that instead of someone having to hand deliver letters the information could be simply transmitted to stations ((Carey, J. (2009)). This in turn had a great impact on the economy, because in company with the locomotive it allowed for long distance transactions. However, some communication was lost between the buyer and seller. In order to cut costs shorter messages had to be sent (Carey, J. (2009)). The telegraph also marked the ability to transfer money over these long distances. The telegraph would soon be overtaken by new technologies, but many were based off the original invention. While James W. Carey seems to be saying in his Technology and Ideology: The Case of The Telegraph he says the telegraphed is overlooked (Carey, J. (2009)) however in my opinion with the impact that it had on all aspects of the american society it could not have been overlooked. While yes compared to the industrial revolution it is studied less I think it is still highly regarded as a turning point in american society and technology.	
	As with everything the era of the telegraph was always destined to end. That is simply the nature of society. In Tim Wu’s The Master Switch his claims of cyclicality in the technological shifts I believe to be inherently true (Wu, T. (2010)). While yes today the internet is the center of most people’s daily lives it will definitely shift toward something new in  the future. A key factor for a society is growth. Stagnancy in society leads to chaos and eventually extinction. Human society is incapable of seeing the possibilities that we constantly have for growth, so it is easy to believe that this is the pinnacle of technology and advancements.
	The Low Tech Magazine has some good insight on how the development of our technological future can come from anywhere. Since the internet has revolutionized how people communicate and interact with one another the necessity for it in impoverished areas is considerable. For poor communities to advance out of their poverty it is necessary for them to be able to communicate and advance in their education. With the invention of low tech internet and wifi-based long distance networks poor communities should be able to advance quicker than in the past. This research on low tech internet has brought into light the inefficiency of our modern networks. Modern service ISP’s have been using traditional systems of advancement and more of a brute force out look through money and energy to get higher access speeds, rather than actual innovation. Low tech internet shows that their could possibly be alternative techniques to the traditional that allow access speed to increase while not increasing the cost and energy (How to Build a Low-tech Internet, Low-Tech Magazine). 	
	Our society is still early in our technological expansion and their is much for growth. The cycles that govern us will push us toward new innovation that allow for greater knowledge to continue the cycle of humanity.




Carey, J. (2009). Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph
Wu, T. (2010) The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall of Information Empires. Chapters 1 and 15, pages 3 -14, and 196-203
How to Build a Low-tech Internet, Low-Tech Magazine


Blog week 3

For My Hyper-text self portrait I decided to share about myself and where I am from. I started with the simple concept of some photos related to my life that would change every few seconds, but I wanted to add more so that there would be an  explanation behind each picture. In my first draft I made images that switched on a click. I wanted to have the images link to a website, so I tried to have each image file linked to a website, and the images change through a randomizer, but I was unable to figure it out. I then went to https://www.w3schools.com/ which had many resources and I was able to see a few slideshow concepts that they had made, which I then used to build off of to make my own slideshow. I also used https://www.w3schools.com/ as a resource to find nearly all of the tags to make the aesthetic just how I wanted it. I used the site for a range of questions that I had from how to bold text to have music and have images with links attached to them. With the slideshow that I made I was able to insert my own image with small descriptions, and if clicked on they go to a website that gives information on the image and how it is relevant to my life. Once I had completed all the images and links I wanted to add more to make it more unique to me. So I went to other classmates to see what ideas they had for me. After assessing my options I decided that I wanted to but a background to give the website a softer tone and seem less irregular. This was surprisingly difficult for me. I figured out how to make a background, but was unable to figure out how to make it just appear. The only way my background appears is if I click the button that makes it appear. I know there is an easy solution to this issue, but I was unable to find the code to fix it. I ran into a similar problem when I decided to add some soothe background music.I had to physically press a play button for it to start playing, and I could not find a solution for this either. Once I had all these aspects included I decided to conclude the presentation with some humor. So, I made a final slide, that when clicked on instead of going to a website goes to another html file with a funny video. I thought this project was pretty challenging, but I really enjoyed the open endedness of the project. The designing process was fun and the problem solving necessary to  make the site function was interesting, although there were many problems I couldn't figure out and either avoided or accepted. This project was very enjoyable.


“HTML.” W3Schools Online Web Tutorials, www.w3schools.com/.


Blog week 4

The subject that I found most interesting out of the readings was the video on surveillance capitalism. As we go through the world we are always connected to each other. The technology that surrounds us links us to one another. This can be a great thing for the simple fact that it boosts social communication and in turn understanding and the exchange of knowledge, but when the information that each individual is constantly giving out is exploited is where surveillance capitalism comes from. Everything economic related is now being recorded by the companies whose products we use. This shows up in everything we use, and can happen through a vast range of depths of intrusion. For example, a company will record what you search, so they can in the future advertise similar products for you. This is an example of productive surveillance capitalism. A scenario that improves the service provided for the consumer. However, there are much darker alternatives; for example, an app used for communication that records every conversation and every sound and image that you experience while you are on the app. The company behind the app however does not use this information to solely improve the app, but instead uses it as a product to sell to other corporations and even the government. All that one may thought done in private now a public matter to be bought. This “Behaviour surplus” as Shoshana Zuboff calls it is then used to shape the way people think. By taking how the consumer reacts to certain scenarios it can be calculated how they will react to future scenarios effectively controlling the people without them even knowing they are being controlled. This idea that with the creation of this new technology corporations have chosen to use it to virtually eliminate any sort of privacy for lack of a better term scares the shit out of me. All the products that I use to interact socially are recording my most minute actions. The truth is that the companies probably know me better than I do. Then that information sold to the government. I have no real secrets. Shoshana Zuboff in her keynote speech on surveillance capitalism names the process of the collection of this “behaviour surplus”, “Big Other”. This appears to be a reference to George Orwell's “1984” in which the surveillance imposed on the people is called “Big Brother”. This really opened my eyes to the horrid possibilities that could become. This also made me question my political efficacy, since it is implied through certain rights of the constitution that people have the right to privacy, but that right is effectively taken away. I feel that this intrusion should be illegal, but the companies are able to get around it. The whole idea of surveillance capitalism makes me question my reality and what I truly know.


Orwell, George. 1984. New American Library, 1955.

Forum Privatheit 2018: Shoshana Zuboff keynote speech on surveillance capitalismhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DeaSxCN2uw8
